README.adoc, before:

= Kafka REST API

image:https://travis-ci.org/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi"]

[[_overview]]
== Overview
Kafka/ZK REST API is to provide the production-ready endpoints to perform some administration/metric task for Kafka and Zookeeper.

// tag::base-t[]
.Following features are provided:
* cluster/nodes/controller info describe
* Broker List
* Broker config get/update, dynamic config get/update/delete
* Log dirs describe, filtered by brokers/topic/partition/logdirs
* Topic create/delete/describe/list
* Topic config create/update/list
* Topic partition add and reassign, replicas movement between log directories is supported
* Consumer group list/describe/delete
* Consumer Group Lag check
* Offset reset by earliest/latest/timestamp
* Contents view of message by different decoder, avro is also supported
* Collect JMX metrics from brokers that expose JMX metrics +
  More details refer to https://github.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi/blob/master/docs/JMXCollector.adoc[JMXCollector API Specification]
* Secure the REST API with Spring Security
// end::base-t[]

image::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi/master/pics/ShowApi.png[API]

=== Installation and run
You can download the release package at
https://github.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi/releases

You can get it running by unzip/untaring the distribution package and run bin/start.sh

Java 8 jre/jdk needed.

=== How to build and run

You can build this restapi server using maven.

#git clone https://github.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi.git +
#cd Kafka-zk-restapi/ +

Change the following settings of application-home.yml in src/main/resources to valid value:
kafka.brokers
zookeeper.uris

Change security related parameters in application config file:
See below: <<_security,'How to config security'>>

server.security.check
server.security.checkInitDelay
server.security.checkSecurityInterval

If you want to use JMX Query Filter function, you can add your own custom filter files to JMXFilterTemplate directory in project root folder.
More details refer to https://github.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi/blob/master/docs/JMXCollector.adoc[JMXCollector API Specification]

#mvn clean package -Dmaven.test.skip=true+

You will find zip/tar under directory: Kafka-zk-restapi/target

You can get it running by unzip/untaring the distribution package and run bin/start.sh

[[_security]]
=== Security
Public REST services without access control make the sensitive data under risk.Then we provide a simple authentication mechanism using Spring Security.
In order to make the project lighter, we use yml file to store user information, not using database.

Follow the steps to enable security feature：

Step 1：Modify the application config file and set server.security.check to true. +

* server.security.check:
  ** True: Add security for the API. Clients can access the API with valid username and password stored in security.yml, or the Swagger UI(http://127.0.0.1:8121/api) is only
                        allowed to access.
  ** False: All the endpoints can be accessed without authentication.
* server.security.checkInitDelay: The number of seconds of init delay for the timing thread to check the security file.
* server.security.checkSecurityInterval: The number of seconds of check interval for the timing thread to check the security file.

Step 2: Make sure security/security.yml exist in application root folder.

Step 3: Use user controller API to add user to security file security/security.yml. +
**Notice**:

* The first user should be added manually. Password need to be encoded using bcrypt before saving to the yml file.For convenience, we provide CommonUtils to encode the password.
* No need to restart server after adding new user or update user info. Timing thread introduced in Step 1 will refresh the user list according to your settings.

=== Support Kafka Version Information
Currently, this rest api (master branch) supports Kafka 1.1.1 brokers. The master branch is the most active branch.

*For other version of kafka rather than 1.1.1, please checkout the coresponding branch by calling the command:*

git clone -b BRANCHNAME https://github.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi.git

=== URI scheme
[%hardbreaks]
__Host__ : localhost:8121
__BasePath__ : /

You can access Swagger-UI by accessing http://127.0.0.1:8121/api


=== https://github.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi/blob/master/docs/paths.adoc[API LIST for 1.1.1]


* kafka-controller : Kafka Api
* zookeeper-controller : Zookeeper Api
* collector-controller : JMX Metric Collector Api
* user-controller : User management Api


=== https://github.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi/blob/master/docs/definitions.adoc[Data Model Definitions for 1.1.1]


=== Version information
[%hardbreaks]
__Version__ : 1.1.1


=== Contact information
[%hardbreaks]
__Contact__ : gnuhpc
__Contact Email__ : gnuhpc@gmail.com
__Github__ : https://github.com/gnuhpc
__Github__ : https://github.com/tinawenqiao

Commit message:

modify the readme and config

README.adoc, after:

= Kafka REST API

image:https://travis-ci.org/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi"]

[[_overview]]
== Overview
Kafka/ZK REST API is to provide the production-ready endpoints to perform some administration/metric task for Kafka and Zookeeper.

// tag::base-t[]
.Following features are provided:
* cluster/nodes/controller info describe
* Broker List
* Broker config get/update, dynamic config get/update/delete
* Log dirs describe, filtered by brokers/topic/partition/logdirs
* Topic create/delete/describe/list
* Topic config create/update/list
* Topic partition add and reassign, replicas movement between log directories is supported
* Consumer group list/describe/delete
* Consumer Group Lag check
* Offset reset by earliest/latest/timestamp
* Contents view of message by different decoder, avro is also supported
* Collect JMX metrics from brokers that expose JMX metrics +
  More details refer to https://github.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi/blob/master/docs/JMXCollector.adoc[JMXCollector API Specification]
* Secure the REST API with Spring Security
// end::base-t[]

image::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi/master/pics/ShowApi.png[API]

=== Installation and run
First of all, Java 8 jre/jdk needed.

You can download the release package at
https://github.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi/releases

You can get it running by unzip/untaring the distribution package, perform some configurations needed and run bin/start.sh

=== How to build 

You can build this restapi server using maven.

# git clone https://github.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi.git +
# cd Kafka-zk-restapi/ +
# mvn clean package -Dmaven.test.skip=true+

After maven building, you will find zip/tar under directory: Kafka-zk-restapi/target


=== How to config
You can get it running by unzip/untaring the distribution package and change the corresponding configuration in config directory:

Change the following settings of application-ACTIVEENV.yml:
kafka.brokers
zookeeper.uris

Change security related parameters in application config file:
See below: <<_security,'How to config security'>>

server.security.check
server.security.checkInitDelay
server.security.checkSecurityInterval

If you want to use JMX Query Filter function, you can add your own custom filter files to JMXFilterTemplate directory in project root folder.
More details refer to https://github.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi/blob/master/docs/JMXCollector.adoc[JMXCollector API Specification]

=== How to run
# bin/start.sh

[[_security]]
=== Security
Public REST services without access control make the sensitive data under risk.Then we provide a simple authentication mechanism using Spring Security.
In order to make the project lighter, we use yml file to store user information, not using database.

Follow the steps to enable security feature：

Step 1：Modify the application config file and set server.security.check to true. +

* server.security.check:
  ** True: Add security for the API. Clients can access the API with valid username and password stored in security.yml, or the Swagger UI(http://127.0.0.1:8121/api) is only
                        allowed to access.
  ** False: All the endpoints can be accessed without authentication.
* server.security.checkInitDelay: The number of seconds of init delay for the timing thread to check the security file.
* server.security.checkSecurityInterval: The number of seconds of check interval for the timing thread to check the security file.

Step 2: Make sure security/security.yml exist in application root folder.

Step 3: Use user controller API to add user to security file security/security.yml. +
**Notice**:

* The first user should be added manually. Password need to be encoded using bcrypt before saving to the yml file.For convenience, we provide CommonUtils to encode the password.
* No need to restart server after adding new user or update user info. Timing thread introduced in Step 1 will refresh the user list according to your settings.

=== Support Kafka Version Information
Currently, this rest api (master branch) supports Kafka 1.1.1 brokers. The master branch is the most active branch.

*For other version of kafka rather than 1.1.1, please checkout the coresponding branch by calling the command:*

git clone -b BRANCHNAME https://github.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi.git

=== URI scheme
[%hardbreaks]
__Host__ : localhost:8121
__BasePath__ : /

You can access Swagger-UI by accessing http://127.0.0.1:8121/api


=== https://github.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi/blob/master/docs/paths.adoc[API LIST for 1.1.1]


* kafka-controller : Kafka Api
* zookeeper-controller : Zookeeper Api
* collector-controller : JMX Metric Collector Api
* user-controller : User management Api


=== https://github.com/gnuhpc/Kafka-zk-restapi/blob/master/docs/definitions.adoc[Data Model Definitions for 1.1.1]


=== Version information
[%hardbreaks]
__Version__ : 1.1.1


=== Contact information
[%hardbreaks]
__Contact__ : gnuhpc
__Contact Email__ : gnuhpc@gmail.com
__Github__ : https://github.com/gnuhpc
__Github__ : https://github.com/tinawenqiao
